# surrounding_prognosis
## Impact of Peritumoral Zone on Glioblastoma Prognosis based on Deep Learning Approach 

Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) is an aggressive primary adult brain tumor (median overall survival (OS): 15 months). The peritumoral brain zone (PBZ) can contribute to the prognosis of GBM. This study investigates the impact of the PBZ on 1-year event-free survival (EFS) in GBM using deep learning (DL), utilizing BraTS 2021 (1,251 subjects) and BraTS 2020 (235 subjects) containing tumor segmentations, the latter including OS data (median: 370 days; 49% died within 1-year). We developed a DL-based tumor reconstruction model, trained by SwinUnetR on BRATS2021, for feature extraction from 12 input images per patient (T1, T2, T1CE, FLAIR MRI; tumor, tumor+5mm, tumor+1cm dilations), using a loss combining Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Structural Similarity Index (SSIM). The tumor reconstruction feature vector is fed into a separate, fully connected survival prediction network, trained, and evaluated on BraTS 2020 (20% blinded testing) using logistic hazard loss. The survival models were evaluated using the time-dependent concordance index (Ctd) and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). The Ctd for models based on tumor features alone, tumor+5mm dilation, and tumor+1cm dilation were 0.56 [95% CI: 0.43-0.70], 0.63 [95% CI: 0.50-0.74], and 0.59 [95% CI: 0.46-0.71], respectively. The corresponding AUCs were 0.56 [95% CI: 0.39-0.72], 0.63 [95% CI: 0.47-0.79], and 0.58 [95% CI: 0.42-0.75]. The results suggest that incorporating surrounding tissue improves prognosis, with 5mm performing better than 1cm, likely due to excess information in the larger area. Despite the blinded test set, this finding should be validated using additional external GBM datasets. 
